NAME   
DG Finance  
Ministry of Defence  
Main Building  
Whitehall  
London SW1A 2HB  
Telephone MOD  
Email:   
    
                        DATE    
NAME, SRO  
  
PROGRAMME NAME – REVIEW NOTE 5 (RN) – OUTLETTER   
Reference:  
A – Review Note (RN) –    – Category A, Ref, DATE --RN5_ PROGRAMME NAME -v4.0-IAC-BC--OS 
dated DATE .  
1. Thank you for the opportunity to consider the PROGRAMME NAME  Review Note 5 at 
Reference A.  The RN invited the IAC to approve the extension of the Assessment Phase, 
an approved Budgetary Limit (ABL) uplift of £ XXXX  (£XXXX  CDEL, £ XXXX  RDEL, all 
inclusive of non -recoverable VAT), for the commencement of critical path activity, and to 
consolidate extant and AP approvals into a single ABL to give a revised ABL of £ XXXX .  
2. I recognise the importance in delivering this work and accordingly I am content to approve 
Para 2 a - c, and content to note Para 3 d - i of Reference A. This approval continues to 
support an innovative programme that REDACTED .  My main concern lies around the 
significant investments that will be required at the Full Business Case (FBC), such that 
Head Office will need to be assured that the procurements will be appropriate, maintain 
value for money for Defence whilst meeting t he Key User Requirements of th e programme. 
On that basis, my approval is conditional upon the following seven conditions:  
a. You should review the Scrutiny Report and liaise with the lead scrutineer to discuss, 
and where necessary, act upon the recommendations made within the report.    
b. The SRO should ensure that for procurement planned in the extension legal advice 
is in place and has been used to inform the procurement activity.  
c. The Programme Team should establish regular engagement between the Scrutiny, 
ORGANISATION an d ORGANISATION  teams over the most significant  
procurement activities that are planned for the FBC providing further detail of the 
procurement strategy of each individual item. This should be prior to any formal 
market engagement and include the REDATED  procurement.  
d. For the set of planned procurements, the SRO should:  
  
 i. continue to engage with Defence Economics to agree the evaluation criteria for 
individual competitions.  
ii. ensure that in the planned competitions capability choices are available at FBC.  
iii. ensure that legal advice is in place and has been used to inform the procurement 
activity.  
iv. The SRO should continue to engage the Commercial Assistance & Scrutiny 
Team (CAST) through the assessment phase as individual procurement activities 
occur.  
e. The SRO should continue to engage with CAST to plan appropriate CO engagement 
across the programme.  
f. The SRO should continue to develop a resourced, baselined schedule and 
supporting SRA for the additional X years of the AP and provide the approving 
authority with a progress update via SFIA.  
g. The SRO should develop for FBC submission a plan for ensuring Teams are fully 
resourced with Suitably Qualified and Experienced Personnel to support the safe 
deployment of REDACTED .  
3. The Secretary of State for Defence (SofS) approved the RN subject to the following 
condition:  
a. That the programme explores every possible avenue for collaboration with 
COUNTRY  on development and delivery of the DELIVERABLE s, and that SofS  is 
provided a formal update on this collaboration no later than DATE .  
4. His Majesty’s Treasury approved the RN at the Official level.  
5. As you continue the Assessment Phase leading to the FBC, please engage with 
REDACTED  at the earliest point if there is any change in Performance, Cost or Time. Yours 
sincerely,  
   
NAME  
Director -General Finance