To: IAC Members         From: XXX SRO   
 
Reference: PMO/ PROGRAMME NAME /IAC/0 2/DATE  
 
XXXXXXX DATE  
 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  (XXX) OUTLINE BUSINESS CASE  
 
Reference s: 
 
A. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  (XXXX ) XXXXXXXXXX  (XXX) (Programe /project 
name) Project Initial Gate Business Case dated DATE . 
B. PROGRAMME NAME  Assessment Phase Extension Review Note (5320) 
Outletter dated DATE . 
 
Executive Summary  
 
This submission seeks approval to start a new procurement to minimise 
capability shortfall and schedule delay  against the endorsed requirement . The 
revised procurement strategy exploits  lessons from the previous XXX 
competition by following a Competitive Design Phase (CDP) approach. 
Reworked  requirements, procurement strategy and schedule assumptions 
have been tested with Industry in early market engagement  and have been well 
received . Optimising  the requirement, both technically  and commercially has 
made a marked difference, widening  the aperture of market interest.  However, 
decisions by  SofS , following the project team’s Market Engagement Report 
(ME Report) recommendations , have resulted  in a level of flexibility to generate 
a viable competition , these additional constraints have the potential to impact 
the effective ness of the competition  to maximise the value for money 
objective . Further to this , additional risks remain ; namely  the capacity and 
capability of the UK market and the overall level of affordability to deliver 
within these constraints whilst delivering the desired outcomes of the 
programme; capability, social value and Net Carbon Zero . This necessitates 
the involvement of international firms  to partner with those in the UK to ensure 
the Procurement Strategy  (including the improvement of UK (INDUSTRY)  
productivity)  remains  deliverable . This  includes  REDACTED . A flexible  
PROGRAMME NAME  CDP has been designed to maximise value -for-money 
through a competitive process and increase  the probability of a successful 
outcome  given  these constraints.  
 
Issue  
 
1. Approval of the XXX Outline Business Case to cover the Assessment Phase  
(AP) and procurement activities  towards the submission of a Full Business Case  
(FBC)  in DATE .   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 Recommendation(s)  
 
2. The Investment Approvals Committee (IAC) is invited to approve:  
 
a. the revised Procurement Strategy  (Enclosure 1 ); 
 
b. the extension of the  XXX AP to a target contract award in DATE  at 50% 
confid ence ; and  
 
c. an Approved Budgetary Level of £XXXX  (outturn, inclusive of VAT where 
applicable) at XX% confidence for PROGRAMME NAME  AP to XXX DATE 
including Private  Sector Support (PSS) costs.  
 
and to note:  
 
d. the candidate KURs (Annex A); 
 
e. the estimated impact on the delivery schedule and revised Planning    
Assumption for Service Entry (PASE) in DATE  at 50% confidence ; 
f. the latest  Design and Manufacture (D&M) Phase 3-point cost estimates and 
affordability of the Assessment Phase against the Initial Gate Business Case 
(IGBC ) budget (Annex C); and 
 
g. the next submission , a Full Business Case (IAC XXXX ) in DATE . 
 
Timing  
 
3. Routine . Approval is required by  DATE  to achieve target contract award and 
PASE dates as set out in this submission.  
 
Presentation and Handling   
 
4. The programme continues to attract significant Parliamentary and public 
interest , particularly in relation to the build location choice and how the programme  
fits within the Government’s INDUSTY  agenda . On DATE  the Secretary of State for 
Defence agreed that the original PROGRAMME NAME  competition should be 
cancelled because it had become clear that a value for money solution could not be 
reached due to lack of effective competition. Subsequently the SofS has decided  on 
a UK focused build, whilst allowing international participation for the new 
PROGRAMME NAME  competition . Lines to take and media handling packs were 
agreed with the Secretariats .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 Strategic  Case  
 
5. PROGRAMME NAME  is a Strategic Programme required to deliver the 
Command Plan objective XXX.  It is a key logistics enabler  for OTHER 
PROGRAMME NAME . 
 
6. Current DELIVERABLES  are beyond their design life and unable to provide 
the capability at the required performance levels  particularly for capacity and storage 
efficiency,  and in an assured manner to meet policy.  
 
7. A capability cliff edge is approaching w ith DELIVERABLE  due to leave service 
in DATE . DELIVERABLES  were planned to enter service between DATES . The 
latest deterministic and risk adjusted  estimates result in a class  In Service Date ( ISD) 
range of DATES , with DELIVERABLES  at 50% confidence . Options to delay 
PROGRAMME NAME  Out of Service Date ( OSD ) have been costed at £ XXXX.  
Once the delivery schedule is more certain  following the conclusion of the 
competition the need for this mitigation will be evaluated and the costs will be 
included in the FBC if required.  
 
Requirements  
 
8. The cancelation of the previous competition has allowed a wholesale review 
of the requirement with particular focus on those elements that drove the 
DELIVERABLE  dimensions , presented  technical challenge and risk. A significant 
‘value engineering’ exercise was conducted to move from large numbers of 
prescriptive requirements to a smaller number of output -based requirements in order 
to remove unnecessary expenditure and provide flexibility to future bidders.  Although 
designed to allow Military Off The  Shelf (MOTS) solutions to be  considered , 
elements may not be suitable  for MOTS and planning has allowed for sufficient time 
and flexibility for Industry to offer and deliver an appropriate solution .  
 
9. The requirement has been reviewed against the latest planning assumptions.  
The operating model used to drive down requirements and deliver smaller, more 
available DELIVERABLES . The  scenarios cannot be met with two DELIVERABLES  
and KURs are driven by a three DELIVERABLE  model.  More widely there would also 
be a significant loss of incentive to  industry to bid, or invest in UK capability,  if the 
volume was reduced.   There have been significant changes in key assumptions as 
other programmes have entered service and Defence Planning Assumptions ( DPAs ) 
have matured.  Collectively, these change the requirement and allow consideration 
of a greater range of transfer options , with a result that the capability could be met by 
a TYPE OF  solution vice ANOTHER TYPE OF solution . The TYPE OF  solution  is a 
proven technology with an existing safety case and reduced integration demand that 
can meet the revised  requirement.   
 
10. These changes, alongside the introduction of threshold and objective measures 
of effectiveness, seek to offer the market flexibility in developing  overall proposals .  
 
 
 
   
 
 Economic  Case  
 
11. Following a review of the programme requirements and lessons from the 
previous procurement, the Project Team designed and executed a phase of Market 
Engagement. A comprehensive market position paper was drafted and released to 
Industry (covering commercial, programmatic, through life and technical aspects). 
Industrial Participants  provided thorough responses  under cover of a Non -Disclosure 
Agreement  which formed the basis for engagement discussions in DATE . The 
results of the Market Engagement exercise were  requested by Ministers to be 
summarised in a paper which  was submitted to SofS from the SRO on DATE.   These 
results  have been essential for cementing the recommended  procurement strategy.  
12. Market Engagement analysis (Appendix to the Procurement Strategy ), which 
included independent industrial capacity assessments and costings, has identified 
two key points.  First, that a credible competition is possible if the market is given 
enough flexibility.  Second, that without competition, the requirement is unli kely to be 
deliverable for the budget.  Consequently, whilst the procurement strategy seeks to 
provide maximum flexibility to maintain competitive pressure and Departmental 
choice, serious consideration should be given to significant risk provision  (up to 
£XXXX ) to maintain the procurement schedule and capability objectives.  Mitigating 
this risk as far as practicable to ensure a deliverable and affordable programme will 
be a primary objective of the next phase of the programme.  
13. Reviewing how the capability can be deliver ed and moving away from a 
taught technical specification to an output -based  set of requirements , received a 
positive reception from industry during the Market Engagement  exercis e. The 
exercise  suggest ed that  delivery remai ns possible within the indicated budget  of 
£XXXX  for the design and build  contract should sufficient flexibility  be provided to 
deliver  with the optimum build strategy . The SofS’s  decisions  on UK content do not 
align  to the level of flexibility recommended within the ME Report , and provid es a 
challenge , which  maintaining  competition can help to overcome. This places 
significant risk on the viability of the competition which will need careful consideration 
before the commercial documentation is finalised and issued.  
14. Treatment of costs outside the budget (£ XXXX  for design and build, £ XXXX  
for the delivery into service ), due to moves  away from the optimum  build strategy , 
would  need to be considered against the wider benefits this may bring. For example , 
investing in capability and capacity in the UK that opens a pathway for the  expansion 
of our strate gic base . These  costs  are outside the control of the Programme, and 
until they are better understood through the next phase of development,  they will 
need to be either held as risk outside Programme or subsumed into a larger 
Programme risk provision.  
15. Market Engagement has shown that there is a vibrant international market to 
deliver the requirement and that the refinements made to technical and commercial 
requirements  in the last year are welcomed by Industry  and will improve programme 
deliverability . However, market conditions have changed since the cancellation of the 
previous procurement . This will make a new procurement a challenge to deliver  and   
 
 as such, Industry’s willingness to invest will be contingent on the level of flexibility 
afforded by the Authority in respect of key programme parameters such as build 
strategy (location) and the level of UK social value to be delivered  as a direct benefit 
of the programme .  
16. In parallel to Market Engagement a UK analysis has been commissioned by 
the Project Team to be conducted by independent experts to understand the 
feasibility and capability of building in the UK. This has also included an analysis of 
the level of investment required in infrastructure and skills to improve and sustain 
productivity to inform the final Procurement Strategy. The combination of this 
analysis and direct engagement with the market has shown that there is pressure on 
UK capacity in respect of infra structure and skills. Thus, a credible competition will 
be reliant on some level of overseas involvement .  
 
17. In addition, significant Government to Government engagement on the 
procurement process for and capability of existing and future auxiliaries has been 
conducted with a number of partner Navies and Governments .  A specific costing 
study into potential cost differences in building in the UK compared to overseas 
labour rates and productivity has also been carried out by the Project Team. This will 
inform more robust costing of internal indicative designs developed t o ascertain the 
likely range of costs to deli ver the new requirement set.  
 
 
 
Value for Money considerations  
 
18. As set out in para. 4 above, SofS has now decided  that assembly and outfit of 
sensitive systems should take place in the UK. This approach will clearly test the 
cost and time parameters of the programme  and may dissuade international 
companies from participating due to the additional costs associated with higher 
levels of UK manufactur ing.  
19. To meet the SofS intent  whilst maintaining a credible procurement, the project 
commercial team’s advice to mitigate (but not retire) this risk, is to allow Bidders a 
degree of flexibility in respect of build location, design work and skills transfer. In 
parallel, a similar appro ach to the assessment of prosperity (social value) in 
PREVIOUS PROGRAMME  may be undertaken to generate wider programme 
benefits (especially skills development and infrastructure investment) and 
opportunities for the development of the UK supply chain.  
Financial  Case  
 
20. The original DATE  Initial Gate Approved Budgetary Level (ABL) of £ XXXX 
was sufficient  for the AP and the additional year  to DATE . To complete the AP will 
require approval to spend a further £ XXXX  out to  a manufacture contract award in 
DATE . Most of  this cost will be used to fund Competitive Design Phase  contracts , 
which will provide significant benefits in maturing Bidders’ designs and delivery 
proposals, including build  strategies , and reduce  commensurate manufacture  phase 
risk.   
   
 
 21. This is not additional cost and is containable within the existing budget 
allocation. It will provide greater incentive for Bidders to remain in the competition, 
allow Departmental analysis of all deliverables and de -risk subsequent detailed 
design with the winning Bidder. It is affordable within budget, and the transfer to 
DELIVERY PARTNER NAME  will be enacted . 
 
22. Revised budget estimates have been updated based on latest schedule, 
procurement approach and requirements. Due to  the elongation of the programme 
and range of uncertainty in Unit Procurement Costs (UPC s) that have yet to be 
formally taken to market, there is a challenge to affordab ility against the budget set 
at Initial Gate and held by ORGANISATION  (Annex C). These estimates reflect a  UK 
focused  build , with block build partly completed overseas  and integration in the UK 
and international participation in design and supply chain, vice the Full International 
Competition pr ocurement assumption at Initial Gate. They are also c osted at a most 
likely capability point that reflects a requirement marginally greater than threshold 
(cargo 50% to objective) to provide trade space to achieve best V alue for Mon ey. 
 
23. The D&M phase costings  volume and profile will be matured , and uncertainty 
reduced,  the competition  progresses  with transfer to the  P9 line , alongside FBC , with 
a competition designed to drive affordability and  subsequent contract award.  This will 
include determining the funding profile required to deliver best VfM and avoid 
additional financing costs, the existing profile is indicative and requires significant 
maturing with industry.  
 
24. At initial gate in DATE , in-service support costs were estimated at £XXXX 
across the planned capability life span. These estimates will be updated and 
confirmed as part of the F BC once the capability solution is known. The Equipment 
Support Programme ( ESP) line (based on IG estimates) was included in the ABC 
DATE  submission as it had then entered the 10 -year planning horizon.  It is intended 
that in-service support will be subsumed within the wider RFA support contract 
(successor to FISS due in DATE ), so a separate support business case  is not 
envisaged.  
 
25. The project team recognise that the decision to purchase the product are 
influenced by the defined three levels of costs that make up the Through Life Costs 
(TLC). These are ;  
  
a. Life Cycle Costs (LCC) which con sist of all the direct costs associated with the 
procurement, operations, support and disposal of the ‘product’. These costs 
include the costs described in paras 11 -14 above and resource s;  
b. Total Ownership Costs (TOC) which c onsist of all the elements that are part of 
the LCC plus the indirect, fixed and linked costs.  The latter includes, common 
support equipment, common facilities, personnel required, administration, 
supervision, operations planning, munitions. TOC represent s all costs 
associated with ownership of a ‘system’ ; and  
c. Whole Life Costs (WLCs) which c onsists of the elements that are part of TOC 
plus indirect, fixed, non -linked costs. These can include housing, medical 
services, ceremonial units, basic training, HQ and staff, academies and 
recruiters.  
    
 
 26. The costs as described in the LCC and TOC will be captured in a Project 
Through Life Cost (TLC) model .  
 
Commercial  Case  
 
27. A Procurement Strategy (Annex G) has been established which sets out that 
requirement should be competed because  there is a well -established market in 
existence of both UK and overseas designers  and integrators.  Competition  is both 
viable and deliverable and can be conducted at pace by conducting the design 
phase in parallel with elements of the manufacture phase contract negotiations  (as 
with PREVIOUS PROGRAMME ). However, it should be noted that Bidders  are more 
likely to offer bespoke designs into this procurement to meet the requirements as 
opposed to modified M OTS Designs offered in PREVIOUS PROGRAMME . This will 
result in a longer competition  timeline,  but this is appropriate given the bespoke 
nature of the requirement. Nevertheless , it can still be delivered quicker and to better 
value than a single source approach  which would also carry the r isk of challenge 
from Bidders who participated in the previous procurement.  
 
28. The previous procurement was conducted under the EU Defence and 
Security Public Contract Regulations DATE . There is an enduring risk (captured in 
the project risk register) that a departure from a  regulated  international competitive 
procurement strategy carries legal and commercial risk. MOD Legal have provided 
advice directly to the SofS on this subject.  
 
29. As set out in para. 14 above t here is a further risk that the UK market alone 
has insufficient capacity to deliver the programme within its current cost and time 
parameters which in the commercial team’s view will necessitate the involvement of 
international partners to some degree to mitigate this risk . Further, a llowing flexibility 
for prime contractors to build some elements overseas will widen the pool of credible 
prime contractors to  between three and five based on interest received at market 
engagement . The Authority’s l everage to negotiate a robust commercial deal will  
also substantially increase.  
 
30. Endorsement is being sought to pursue a similar Procurement Strategy to that 
of PREVIOUS PROGRAMME , with focus on a funded competitive design phase 
where Bidders are contracted to produce design, project and ILS deliverables for 
assessment. It is essential to fund Bidders’ efforts via simple design phase contract 
in order to reduce the risk of legal ch allenge arising from the previous cancelled 
procurement as well as maximise competition. This will partially run in parallel with 
manufacture phase negotiatio ns but learning from PREVIOUS PROGRAMME , more 
time will be afforded for Bidders to focus on design aspects upfront ahead of formal 
negotiations beginning.   
 
31. The departure from PREVIOUS PROGRAMME  will be in the evaluation 
criteria (which must focus on different technical aspects and an increased focus on 
social welfare  and sustainability ) as well as an earlier focus on design and through 
life deliverables, leaving build strategy development and (LOCATIO N) selection to 
latter phases of the competition. The evaluation approach will be to award the Most 
Economically Advantageous Tender  in line with published  criteria to be developed 
over the coming months.      
 
  
32. An effective competition will require international contractors to access and 
partner with UK companies and so procurement rules preventing exclusivity 
arrangements are being developed by the Project Team as a criteria of competition 
entry in line with UK competition law.  Steps will also be taken to ensure that an onus 
is placed on Bidders to demonstrate why the benefit of entering into joint ventures or 
teaming arrangements outweighs the benefits the Authority may enjoy through a 
broader competitive field.   
 
 
Management  Case  
 
33. At this stage it is not possible to confirm a revised set of  PASE  dates until the 
market has been engaged  through a procurement process and against published 
evaluation criteria which allow Bidders  to make cost, time and capability trades. 
Given that FBC is less than X months away the re -baseline of the programme 
schedule would be more sensible at that point benefiting from the optimum delivery 
schedule that will be derived from the competition . On current estimates, i t is likely 
that there will be a delay to the previous PASE dates ( Annex D) of X months . Based 
on comparable build schedules and by incentivising Bidder s limiting the delay to X 
months is a realistic target .  
 
34. An outline schedule, covering the procurement  out to contract award , is 
provided at Annex E. 
 
35. The project resources to conduct the procurement  have been developed 
utilising DELIVERY ORGANISATION  Transformation tools  and reflect the intensive 
nature of the competitive process with industry to deliver to timescales . The 
Organisation Design is derived from work scope developed in the Work Breakdown 
Structure (WBS) to determine the staffing plan to deliver the full scope of work 
through to the forecast Contract Award in DATE . The Pro ject Team will grow in size 
to a total of X FTE from DATE . This will include DELIVERY ORGANISATION  staff 
and specially selected  staff to fill niche skills gaps . Where necessary PROGRAMME 
NAME  will be complimented with bespoke tasking activity. Further, efficiencies in 
staff assignments and output will be attained through the development of a matrix 
management system . The Programme Team is fully resourced with  no current 
gapping.  
 
36. It is recognised that the project will need to manage the additional constraints 
present in a COVID environment set to continue into FY  DATE , requiring sufficient 
infrastructure, resources, skills and digital working to manage intensive dialogue with 
multiple bidders that is best conducted, at least in part, face to face. As a result,  the 
project requires sufficient funding for specialist accommodation , large enough to 
enable safely mix ing Authority and Industry participa nts. Learning from PREVIOUS 
PROGRAMME  showed the criticality of being  flexibly supported by a Strategic Client 
Friend , with commercial shipping expertise,  able to respond effectively to risks and 
issues developed by industry  and surge support to workload peaks . 
 
37. It is important to recognise the difficulties an annual cycle of funding places on 
progressing the Programme particularly as it impact s future key dates and delivery    
 
 milestones. Without PROGRAMME NAME  the ORGANISATION  is unable to 
implement its FOC to deliver  the OTHER PROGRAMME NAME  policy . Without  that 
long-term certainty of programme in p lace, it increases the likelihood of needing to 
extend the life of t he only current available  DELIVERABLE which is due ot go out of 
service in DATE.  Additionally, work to  establish  the X-year DELIVERABLE  strategy 
relies on PROGRAMME NAME  being delivered to generate  UK strategic  capability 
and capacity  in order to establish a pipeline . 
 
38. The principal  risks, relevant to this  phase  of the procurement , are identified at 
Annex F.  The programme and project risk register s for the subsequent delivery 
phase will continue to be matured to support the FBC.  
 
39. On current planning, t he intent is that a FBC will be provided to the IAC in 
DATE  to enable the subsequent contract award.  
 
 
 
NAME  
Senior Responisble Owner  PROGRAMME NAME  
     
Annexes:  
A. Candidate Key User Requirements ( KURs ). 
B. Assessment Phase Affordability Table . 
C. PROGRAMME NAME  Phase estimate s affordability vs budget.  
D. AOC /PASE  dates estimates  
E. Assessment Phase  Schedule .  
F. Risks . 
G.  Summary of  Procurement Strategy (p50 dates)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 Annex A 
XXX OBC  
DATE  
 
Annex A – Candidate Key User Requirements  (as at DATE ) 
 
REDACTED    
 
 Annex B to 
XX OBC  
DATE  
 
 
Annex  B – Assessment Phase ( CDP ) Costs/ Budget  
 
 
Assessment Phase to 
Contract Award  21/22  
(£X) 22/23  
(£X) Total  
(£X) 
CDP Bidder Payment  XXXX XXXX XXXX 
ORGANISATION  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
Total EPP RDEL  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
Total EPP CDEL  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
Project Team  OPEX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
Project Team  PSS XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
Total TLB RDEL  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
Total TLB CDEL  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
TOTAL  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 Annex C to 
XX OBC  
DATE  
Annex  C – Programme Cost Estimates vs IG Budget Allocation  
 
 
1. Latest D&M EPP estimates  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note . p90 reflects pre -Market Engagement estimate based on competitive outcome still being achievable. Should this not be 
achievable the Market Engagement report has indicated a potential c.£ XXXX  increase in programme costs  should the programme 
revert to single source procurement . The EPP estimate does not include Project Team OPEX/PSS required to support programme 
delivery.    Estimated Cost (£ X) 
10% 50% 90% 
D&M Cost from PROGRAMME 
NAME  TLC MODEL  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX    
 
 2. Total Assessment Phase (CDP) versus ABC20 Budget  
 
 
  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  
Total  
 RDEL/  
CDEL  21/22  22/23  23/24  24/25  25/26  26/27  27/28  28/29  29/30  30/31  
Forecast at 
50% 
Confidence 
(P50) £ X RDEL  £ XXXX £ XXXX £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ XXXX 
CDEL  £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - 
Total  £ XXXX £ XXXX £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ - £ XXXX 
Provision  
(ABC20 
Outcome)  RDEL  £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ - £ - £ XXXX 
CDEL  £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ - £ - £ XXXX 
Total  £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ XXXX £ - £ - £ XXXX 
Variance  RDEL  £ XXXX £ XXXX -£ XXXX -£XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£XXXX £ - £ - -£ XXXX 
CDEL  -£ XXXX -£XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX £- £ - -£ XXXX 
Total  -£XXXX -£ XXXX -£XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX -£ XXXX £- £ - -£ XXXX 
 
Notes.  The CDP phase is full affordable in the  existing  ABC DATE  provision. This does not include the profile of the indicative D&M 
phase funding. As described in Para 21, the current D& M estimate is driven by high uncertainty on Unit Procurement Costs (UPC) , 
to be narrowed down during the CDP. The D&M Phase EPP and ESP estimates continue to be refined and updated following 
limited feedback from market engagement. This has been fed into the Cost Management Working Group (CMWG)  workstream  
which are managing the Acq uisition  portfolio affordability and will feed into the ABC DATE  submission.  The D&M Phase  costs will 
be further matured through the competitive procurement and will likely need to be profiled out to Year  XXX (DATE ) to cover the full  
approval as part of FBC . 
 
 
    
 
 3. D&M EPP estimates shown as a chart (£ XXXX ) 
 
Notes.  Costs are shown at Most Likely  Values (Input) and Uncertainty, Escalation and Risk are shown separately.  Escalation relate s 
to the provision for inflation in the cost model. The risks have been split out  to illustrate indicative provision for UK risk as a 
separate estimate to  non-build specific delivery risk . 
 Annex D to 
XXX OBC  
dated DATE  
 
Annex  D – Programme Delivery Milestone Estimates  
 
Milestone  P10 P50 P90 
Class   
 Start Production (Cut Steel)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
DELIVERABLE  1   
 Acceptance Date (AD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
 Equipment Delivery Date (EDD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
 In-Service Date (ISD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
DELIVERABLE  2  
 Acceptance Date (AD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
 Equipment Delivery Date (EDD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
 In-Service Date (ISD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
DELIVERABLE  3  
 Acceptance Date (AD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
 Equipment Delivery Date (EDD)  DATE  DATE  DATE  
 In-Service Date (ISD)  DATE  DATE  DATE    
 Annex E to 
XXX OBC  
dated DATE  
Annex  E – Assessment  Phase Schedule  (p50)  
 
 
REDACTED  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Annex F to 
XXXX  OBC  
dated DATE  
Annex F – AP Top 5 Programme / Project Risks  
 
Risk 
No Title/Description  Mitigations  % Cost  
(£X) Time  
(Days)  Perf 
1 Schedule  
As a result of constant external influences, there is a risk that 
the programme will be delayed. This will result in a drop / 
delay in strategic capability (RFA)  
 1) Stakeholder engagement with MOD Main, XXXX team 
and XXX to ensure robustness of advice to MinDP and 
SofS.  
2) Communications with industry via appropriate 
commercial vehicles for market engagement and 
competition. Incorporate feedback from XXXX . 
3) Programme mandate to include wider government 
benefits such as environmental sustainability and social 
value (prosperity).  
 XX XXX XXX X 
 
As a result of REDACTED  there is a risk that collaborative 
working environment required for the procurement, including 
delivering a competitive process due to H&S demands and 
uncertainty, cannot be achieved.  
 1) Specialist accommodation to conduct CDP 
engagement with industry (monetary provision made in 
OBC).  
2) Exploit digital and virtual working and lessons from 
Market Engagement.  XX X XX XX 
2 Affordability  
As a result of the fragility of the financial position/external 
influencers, there is a risk that assessment phase funding is 
delayed/modified/changed to balance the portfolio thus 
impacting on delivery of the capability.  
 1) Engagement with Resources and Plans (RP).  
2) Monitor savings measures and report to 
PROGRAMME NAME . XX XX XX XXX   
 3) Negotiate with Resources and Plans  
There is a risk that the requirement cannot be shown to be 
affordable as a result of threshold requirements may not 
being affordable in the context of a UK  build strategy , in 
particular if it leads to a single source contract . 
(included as a consequence of the learning from Market 
Engagement ) 1) Sufficient increase in the programme budget and 
delivery timescales.  
2) Ability to change build strategy on -contract to overseas 
in the event that UK build jeopardises delivery  
3) Design contracts awarded to industry must be 
sufficiently high in value to encourage participation.  XX XX XX XX 
3 Performance  
As a result of Incorrect and/or changed baseline capability 
assumptions there is a risk that there is a delay in maturing 
and costing solutions which will affect the conduct and 
completion of the competition.  
 1) Early and detailed OA to support the requirement 
coherence with Defence Policy.  
2) Pro -active engagement requirement setting and 
monitoring with DLODs.  
3) Proactive engagement with XXXX  and XXX through 
membership of the Prog Bd.  XX XX XX XX 
4 Credibility of the Market  
The potential for  a lack of market appetite resulting 
from high  UK content requirements means t here is a 
risk that a viable competition cannot be generated and 
sustained.  1) Reopen Market Engagement as soon as possible.  
2) Include provision to pay Industry for CDP deliverables 
as part of OBC costings  
3) Develop procurement strategy to remove barriers to 
entry.  
 XX XX XX XX 
5 Legal Risk  
As a result of grievances from Industry around procurement 
regulations there is a risk that a bidder mounts a legal 
challenge.  1) Comprehensive review and refresh of all technical 
requirements following previous competition.  
2) Hold Market Engagement with Industry.  XX XX XX XX 
 
    
 Annex G to  
XXX OBC  
dated DATE  
Annex G – Summary of PROGRAMME NAME  Procurement Strategy  (p50 dates)  
 
 
REDACTED