NAME  DG Finance  
Ministry of Defence  
Main Building  
Whitehall  
London SW1A 2HB  
Telephone MOD : 
E-mail:   
  
DATE  
 
 
 
 
SRO NAME  
Sponsor NAME    
       
 
PROGRAMME  NAME  – OUTLINE BUSINESS CASE   
OUTLETTER  
 
References : 
 
A. Outline Business Case V1.2 SRO Final – OSC dated DATE  
B. Information Note Final  – OSC dated DATE  
C. Approvals Update , dated DATE  
 
This Note includes sensitive information.  Distribution has been restricted accordingly and the 
paper should not be copied further.  Addressees are responsible for safeguarding the 
information that it contains.  
 
 
1. Thank you for your business case at Reference A. The Approving Authority is content to 
approve paragraphs 1(a-d) and to note paragraphs 1(f-s) of Reference A with the following conditions;  
Prior to contract award:  
a. SRO to ensure Commercial Due Diligence is completed and to clarify with Chief 
Commercial Officer which costs are firm and fixed, the contractual position (regarding vendor 
lock in) on support and ensure Single Source Regulations are complied with where applicable.  
Before Full Business Case is submitted (timings to be agreed with DPAS):  
b. SRO to brief DCDS MilCap and CSA regarding the Information DLoD and the integration 
with other systems.  
c. SRO in conjunction with ROLE NAME  to provide an update on the Programme and In-
Service  Support costs when these becomes available. This should include the ROM costs and 
how CUSTOMER  will provision for this.  
d. SRO to brief CSA on REDACTED . 
e. SRO to liaise with ORGANISATION  and ensure they are content with bespoke 
infrastructure being provided by OTHER ORGANISATION , that co -ordination of plans and site   
 construction is conducted between OTHER ORGANISATION  and the ORGANISATION  teams 
and where applicable, that MOD standards for infrastructure are applied.  
f. SRO to provide the IAC with an annual IN detailing progress which in the first instance 
should include specific escalation parameters for returning to the IAC.  
g. SRO to ensure Scrutiny are provided with pan -DLoD plans for the transition of service as 
they mature.  
h. SRO in conjunction with the Delivery Agent to assure the IAC they have sufficient capacity 
to manage the programme and escalate issues as necessary.  
i. SRO to continue to drawdown in accordance with the Outline Business Case  and 
continue to refine the most appropriate retirement profile for the remaining DELIVERABLE  to 
deliver at least the agreed £ XXXX  savings.  Any savings beyond this should be used to reduce 
the small residual pressure in the early years of the programme.  
j. No announcements or release of information into the public arena is to be made without 
DG Finance and DCDS MilCap approval of the specific wording and the discussion proposed.  
2. The Approving Authority recognises that the following conditions have already been completed:  
a. SRO to provide an Information Note (Reference B) which should include detail on 
affordability including MDP scenarios, Termination Clauses and the counterfactual should the 
Outline Business Case not be approved in year.   
b. SRO in conjunction with ROLE NAME  and D Financial Planning and Scrutiny to address 
control total profiling.  
c. SRO to try and negotiate a Time Bounded Liability Cap into the Termination for 
Convenience Clause incorporating sunk costs and any commitments, liabilities or irrecoverable 
expenditure that would otherwise represent an unavoidable loss to the Contractor and report 
back to the IAC.  
3. Additionally, on the basis of the affordability work underpinning the DELIVERABLE request, 
CUSTOMER will not contribute to the Spending Review pressures on the basis of the current 
programme of record. CUSTOMER  will manage any risk emerging from the commitment to the 
DELIVERABLE  within their existing programme.  
4. This Outletter is being issued as an exemption to the Approvals Suspension agreed by DG Fin 
at Reference C. This is because not approving the case would result in increased costs in later years.  
 
NAME