6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street —
Structural ‘Lessons Learned / Observations’
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Leared’

Contents

1.0 Interpretation.
2.0 Structural Steelwork

2.1 People / Managemen

2.2 Edge Protection (CellShield) oo... cesses nesses ceseesaesaeseesnesaeen sen seeennenes tee tesaeseesneae 4

2.3 Safety Fans

2.4 MEWP Track Checking / Sign-Off (Temporary Load Out of Steel / Decking)................. 7
3.0 Substructure, Cores & Superstructure Concrete... ccceescecseeeeeseeeereeeeeeeeeeeees 18
4.0 H1500 Tower Cranes... eee cesses cscs sessnsenessesnecsnesnscessssseseneessessneansessnesniesinesaceennesnecsiees 34
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

1.0 Interpretation
- “Project” meaning 6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street.

-  “Keltbray Structures” meaning Keltbray Structures Limited who were responsible for undertaking
works associated with A2600.

- “William Hare” meaning William Hare Limited who were responsible for undertaking works
associated with A2400.

-  “Wolffkran” meaning Wolffkran Limited who were responsible for undertaking works associated with
H1500.

- “Arup” meaning Ove Arup & Partners Limited who were the Structural Engineer on the Project.
-  “Alinea” meaning Alinea Consulting LLP who were the Cost Consultant on the Project.
- “Scope of Work” refers to the document attached as part of Appendix 1.

- “Normal Working Hours” refers to 08:00-13:00 Monday to Friday and 08:00-13:00 Saturday.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

2.0 Structural Steelwork
2.1 People / Management

Following the Critical Incident in January 2021, William Hare terminated the sub-contract for the
company responsible for their steel erection on the Site. As consequence, William Hare decided to then
employ labour directly and manage the erection themselves with their own supervision. This resulted in
the ‘erection’ labour was being paid on ‘price’. William Hare’s own supervision faced significant
problems with managing the erection themselves, and the fact labour was being paid on ‘price’ also
influenced the safety-culture. Prior to this, William Hare's own management which was directly
employed were effectively back-to-back with their sub-contractor.

2.2 Edge Protection {CellShield)

The Scope of Work required William Hare to provide 1800mm of edge protection to the perimeter of the
structure and around unprotected openings. William Hare's system consisted of two panels, comprising
one 1200mm panel, and another 600mm panel. There was an option for William Hare to reduce this to
1200mm once the Tower Facade Trade Contractor commenced.

The consensus by the Project was that William Hare's proposals for 1800mm panels were not “user-
friendly” and were not designed to be specific to the Site. This was because by removing one risk,
additional risks were being added by doing so.

Firstly, this system does not consider the tolerances of the concrete structure.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

It was also found that William Hare had not considered the gaps that would exist beneath the panels.
This should not have been an afterthought but should have been an integral part of said panels. William
Hare had to make subsequent amendments to the design using ArmaFlex (foam) to seal these gaps.

Additionally, there were concerns over whether the handrail pots themselves were sufficient to
withstand the movement of the 1800mm panels.

William Hare's system is based on ease and simplicity whereby the posts are simply positioned within
the handrail pots without any mechanical locking system. It was found that during slinging operations,
there was risk that the handrails could be dislodged when caught. It should be noted that other systems
such as K-Guard, are locked into position.

An exercise was completed by Paul Martyn that outlines the advantages and disadvantages of William
Hare's system, versus other systems available on the market.

2.3 Safety Fans

During November 2021, the Project experienced adverse weather. Specifically, there were high winds
which resulted in damaged Vertemax fans. On further review, the Construction Manager discovered
that the fans did not have a suitable base design, incorrect bolts were installed on a significant number
of arms (one bolt had no nut which we can only assume fell into either the Pit Lane or Bishopsgate) and
there was not a designed restraint mechanism for the top of the fans. It took well into December 2021
before the design and practical issues around the fans were fully resolved.

The design of the Verternax fans is based on a simply supported system. Where the fan rests on the
upper metal deck and relies on the “eg” pushing against the beam underneath to provide support, when
the fans are deployed / erected. However, this design was only suitable for wind speeds up to 30mph,
which was stated on William Hare's own documentation. The Project was experiencing wind speeds
significantly more than 30mph which highlighted issues with the design. Additionally, William Hare had
no strategy and/or methodology to overcome this. To overcome this, William Hare and Lendlease co-
ordinated, to design a system whereby the fans could be fixed onto a bracket at deck level, to ensure
that they remained in position during high winds, with the top of the fans tied back to the studs.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Construction to manufactuers manuals??
Below should be related to fans...

Due to the nature and sequencing of the works, William Hare were obligated to both supply and fit the
safety fans. The edge protection should be flush with the ‘Comffor metal decking, to ensure that there
were no gaps present under the edge protection, however, when Keltbray Structures accessed the
unconcreted floor to fix reinforcement and then pour concrete, these works could not be completed until
the edge protection was raised. There were various claims received from Keltbray Structures associated
with the non-productivity of their steel-fixing resource when William Hare had failed to raise their fans
to required levels. This exposure should have been managed within the Scope of Work for both Keltbray
Structures and William Hare. For example, an addition to Keltbray Structures’ Scope of Work may be,
“... the Trade Contractor shall also be responsible for co-ordinating and completing amendments to the
edge protection to ensure the continuity of their Works”.

Note that Keltbray need to install their nappies.
Steel frame needs to be four floors ahread of where we are pouring (based on maxi fan system).

Standard v Maxi Fans = What are the pros and cons (lock at EDR’s).
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Standard 3m from edge of protection / maxi fans are 4.2m
Standard allows you to do 2 floor jump.
Maxi allows you to do 4

EDR's Say 3 floors

For each of the brackets on the floors for hare’s, there were 8 loose slements that had to be installed
(what drawings??}

Strip netting???? What detail was this for edge of building???

2.4 MEWP Track Checking / Sign-Off (Temporary Load Out of Steel / Decking)

This evolved throughout the Project as consequence of the Critical Incident in January 2021. There was
no thorough “Shake-Out” plan prior to the Critical Incident. This plan empowered William Hare's
operatives to properly consider the works ahead of erection.

The Critical Incident in January 2021 resulted in an overhaul of William Hare’s temporary works design
and series of “standard” layouts (which covered several levels) and zones showed how loading
occurred. This also resulted in William Hare using the “Deck Ryder” system for spreading the loads on
the metal decking.

What was the shake out plan??? Load out plan?? Examples??
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

West Elevation / Public Interface

1} The Western elevation of the structure cantilevered across Bishopsgate and therefore the public.
To adhere to the Work at Height Regulations 2005, to complete works to this elevation, particularly
to the North-West corner, William Hare was required to prevent materials and/or objects from falling
firstly, before any further measures are undertaken to prevent any falling material and/or objects
striking any person. This meant that both primary and secondary means of protection were required.

At tender stage, William Hare had committed at the start of the Project to develop and use bolt and
nut tethers as primary means of protection, an engineered control. This was unsuccessful,
rendering the fans as the primary means of protection —- no other engineering control has been
proposed. As stated, as part of the ‘Safety Fans’ section, the fans had been incorrectly deployed
on numerous occasions and therefore could not alone be relied on upon to provide suitable
protection to the public during Normal Working Hours.

The secondary means of protection was the exclusion zone {crash deck) setup directly below the
Western elevation on Bishopsgate.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Exclusion Zones

1} The exclusion zones need to be considered, with respect to 8bg being a highrise job...

- Do EDR's cover this???

Deckers found to be working directly below steel erection...

Lifting
Controlling lifting zones...
Temporary works, loading out plans???

Repetition is easy, but due to differing nature of phases, William hare didn’t keep p with - each section
had different layouts and needed to be managed differently.

Prior to incident Originally, whl would bring materials, they would balance them on beams / junctions of
beams — i.e. sitting across beams. They neeed temp works for this.

Same applies to steel.

Go to drops prevention in steelwork folders and look at means and methods!!!

Deliveries
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’
1) William Hare’s proposal post-contract was to load up to 25te of steel onto HGVs, but the edge
protection to the perimeter of the HGVs flatbed was not sufficient. Notwithstanding this, the Site did

not have the space for William Hare to load-out and laydown material thereafter.

The below photograph of offloading operations at 1 Leadenhall Street (Brookfield Multiplex) shows.
how William Hare had intended to offload material from the outset of the Project.

- Steel could become destabilised and ‘toppie’ over the side of the HGV due to the loading of the
steel being stacked higher than the steel king posts.

- There are no handrails to prevent the operatives from falling.

- It also seemed that William Hare relied too heavily on Tekla to calculate their deliveries and did
not take account of the Site’s constraints, logistically. As noted, there was nowhere on the Site
to store 25te of material.

10
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

2) The Project's Pit Lane, also on Bishopsgate, was logistically constrained. The Contract Documents
and specifically the Logistics Plans showed this constraint.

Nylon banding v steel banding on decking — due strength / sharp edges
Nylon was stronger in tension, but did not deter sharp edges???

William ahre believed it was stronger. Tata steel!!

Comflor Metal Decking

1} The Comflor metal decking had to be slung using chains, but this could not be done outside of
Normal Working Hours (i.e., 08:00-18:00) due to City of London’s restrictions on noise. Were the
Comflor metal decking to arrive pre-slung, then this could have been loaded onto the required floor
straight away (avoids removing chains outside of Normal Working Hours).

2) After they were no longer required, the temporary beams that were required to support the Comflor
metal decking caused problems, as were left “stuck” on floors, even after the floor structure had
been concreted. This needs to be considered as part of the Programme also. This prevents MEP
Trade Contractors from visiting areas on occasion.

3) William Hare used propping {when safe to do so) to prop the composite decking. This caused
interruption to MEP Trade Contractors, when the propping was not removed timely.

4) Load-out of metal decking being loaded out incorrectly onto beams.

[See Oxford House Lesson Learned and Critical Incident at Triton Street]
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Materials

1} The Project's hoists could only serve concreted floors. This restricted the load-out of materials
earlier, thus preventing the early build of shaft-related works by Keltbray Structures for example,
who were responsible for constructing Working Decks and Protection Decks. Opportunities should
be explored as to whether the Project’s hoists could be amended to serve unconcreted floors, i.e.,
Only those with only the Comflor metal decking.

Kone used metal

Does this add risk into programme??

Kone had those grated flooring systems???

2) With respect to the Programme, Trade Contractor's programmes should be queried as to whether
there is enough time to load away materials for removal from the Site.

3) William Hare also continually failed to achieve their piece-count.

PIECE COUNT???? DATA (SEE DATA AFTER INCIDENT).

Painting

1) William Hare were not permitted to complete painting to steel members outside of the perimeter
netting. This resulted in return visits.

PAINTING OUTSIDE OF NETTING = RETURN VISITS???
If job necesstitates, because you cannot put no person zone in.

Or William ahre can come up with painting before concrete is done {when they have fan).
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Fire / Intumescent Paint

1} The issue of placing attachments onto and through structural steelwork protected with an
intumescent coating was raised on the Project. There was concern that when areas of the
intumescent coating are unable to expand and perform their function in a fire, that a conduction
path for heat transfer would be created which could lead to the primary structural steel member
becoming hot in localised points and therefore damaging the integrity/stability of the steel member.
The subsequent outcome of this was to achieve what is known as a “coaf-back”. This purpose of
this coat-back is to prevent heat transfer to the primary steel.

2.2.Larger Attachments — 30-90 Minutes Protection
NOT USED, ALL. ATTACHMENTS TREATED AS INDICATED IN SECTION 2.3

2.3.Larger Attachments - +20 Minutes Protection

At protection periods of 120 minutes or longer the FIRETEX applied to the attachment
should extend for a minimum of 200mm (‘coatback”) from the point of connection. A fin
plate, toe plate or similar which is not connecting an item that requires fire protection should
be protected with FIRETEX for a minimum of 200mm from the point of connection to the
primary structural element.

Please Refer to Extraordinary Use of FIRETEX Intumescent TAD for illustration of above
scenarios

* Macropoxy 400 has been rebranded from Macropoxy C400V3

William Hare's ‘Behaviour of Intumescent Steelwork’ (260906-WHL-XX-XX-TS-X-0001) document
explained, from Sherwin Williarn’s (FIRETEX) perspective, how the treatment of attachments to
primary steel should be designed.

The below illustration from the ‘Behaviour of intumescent Steelwork’ (260906-WHL-XX-XX-TS-X-
0001) document provides examples of how secondary attachment could be treated.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

a SIRETEX Protected 6
Steetwark

Bracket or
FIRETEX Z6er
FIRETEK

FIRETEX Protected FIRETEX Protected

Steelwork

FIRETEX

Stestwark

4 ‘on-Fire Protected

2) Item 1, above, generally applies to fagade-related bracketry, however, there may be other Trade
Contractors whose own works interface with the primary steel and therefore require coat-backs
where they are connecting onto the permanent steel structure. For example, there were brackets
that supported the glass bridge in the reception area that required coat-backs. This has been shown
on the screenshot of the model below, circled.

Where these coat-backs are required, William Hare, or similar, should remain responsible for the
co-ordination and application of these coat-backs to ensure that intumescent to the permanent steel
structure can be warranted by William Hare, and then Sherwin Williams. Where design is being
developed, following the execution of the Steelwork Trade Contract, then Orders Not Placed should
be allowed for, to cover where William Hare are required to provide additional protection extra over
from their Contract Documents.

3) Check that the specification correctly calls for corrosion protection (galvanising) in external areas.
This may be required to areas with high condensation or dampness, such as plant areas.

Regarding corrosivity, the Project should ensure that correct paint is specified for areas working in
€3 to C5 corrosion environments. The below extract from the Structural Steelwork Specification
(260906-ARP-XX-ZZ-SP-S-0006) was amended post execution of the Trade Contract to confirm
that plant space at Level 49 and Level 50 were considered external steelwork.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

{¥) The cladding support frame along the North and East of the pavilion roof
structure and level 49 and 30 plant space (columas and beams) is the oaly

external sicelwork. Typieally, these members will aot be insulated or clad

2000s ARP 20-22: 56--006 [0912 Rover 20:3 Page 3
NEC Prom Lnsie & Somes PLC eae

and will be subject to thennal variations and an external C3 to CS
evrrosion environment, The required paint spevification for these items is
E-1. No other pari of the structure is external and where the steelwork is
present outside the building envelope bur will be insulated to perform as it
would internally.

(vi)

No part of the structure may be manufactured to Execution Class 1.

To provide context, BS EN ISO 12944-2 provides categories for corrosivity environments, below

(from https://www.steelconstruction.info/Standard_ corrosion protection systems for buildings).

Aumospherie carrasivity eategaries and examplas of typleal environments (BS HN ISO 12944.2!1h
Corosivity _Low-carbon otee! ‘Exempies of lypical environments {informative only)
eetegory —Thleknese loos (umi> Exterior Interior
1 sa Heated buildings with elean atmospheres. e.g
verylow offices shops, schools, hotels
ce 2131025 Atmospheres wh low level of pollution mostly _Unheated buldings where condensation can
tow rua areas occur. 8g. depots. sports halls
co > 287050 Unban and industtal aimespheres, mederate _Pradustion rooms with hah humidity and same
meciun sulbtur elon peluian coaslal area with iow air pollution, €9, foodaprocessing plants
sabmty vaunaves, breweries. dalies
oe > 891980 ‘ndustial aleas.and coasla areas with mederate Chemical plas. swimming pool, coastal ship
high salinity and boalyares
cs > 8940200 indystral areas wit nigh numiaty and Bunge or areas wth abrost permanent
very bight aygceseive atmosphere and coastal areas wilh candensatior and Nigh polluter
righ catty
ox > 20010 700 COfsnare areas win nign sainay anc mdusieal —Ingustnal areas vamn extreme RUmIay Ana
exieme reac wilh exterre Numi and aggressive agressive almasphave
almasphe‘e ane sulntopical and woplcal
atmospheres

4) Attender stage, tenderers should be queried on what has been allowed for with regard intumescent
paint. For example, has the tenderer priced for the painting of the top flange? Tenderers may use
this as opportunity to value engineer post-execution of the Trade Contract, as the top flange is not
exposed where the metal decking sits on this area of the steel member. This query should however
be checked with the Structural Engineer beforehand (as part of the tender process).
5)

6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

The behaviour of other building components also came into question regarding their interface with
the structure and specifically the steel. William Hare

Steel to Concrete Connections

1)

2)

William Hare was asked to model steel-to-concrete connections pre-execution of the Trade
Contract. This enabled the Structural Engineer to identify clashes and update their design
accordingly. This proved to be highly beneficial and cost effective. It is perhaps something that
could be delivered as part of PCSAs.

Grouting of steel members was bought directly from William Hare (who sub-contracted this to
Keltbray Structures). This was based on a ‘Lesson Learned’ from Google whereby

Pricing Schedule

1)

2)

The addition of the 'Average Steel Rate’ to the Trade Contract proved beneficial when valuing
variations post-contract.

‘Measured Works - Average Steel Rate

[Average Stee! Rate
Material Cost z rma. 27-18%
Engineering 7 £710.01 2.07%
Fabrication t B07 08 31.01%
Transport t £12.77 2.50%
Erection t £286.03 10.95%

£2.603.00 300.0%

Additional wording should be added to the Schedule of Rates to the

William Hare submitted Daywork rates which were significantly high at tender stage, and these
were not inserted into the Trade Contract's Schedule of Rates for obvious reasons. Greater
emphasis should be placed on securing fair and reasonable Daywork rates with Trade Contractors

16
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

such as William Hare at tender stage. The rates that William Hare were charging post-contract were
extortionate and were difficult to negotiate due to rates being agreed on another Project — these
were also too high.

Post execution of the Trade Contract, benchmark rates of circa £69.69/hour were obtained from
previous projects such as Oxford House and Triton Street. However, even these rates were too
high - greater emphasis should be placed on securing reasonable rates at tender stage and adding
them to the Schedule of Rates.

Procurement

1} Alinea were not aligned with Arup when producing the Cost Plan. Need to understand whether
castellations are accounted for in Arup's tonnage estimate before finalising Cost Plan.
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

3.0 Substructure, Cores & Superstructure Concrete

People / Management

1} Keltbray Structures’ safety culture was concerning. Even greater focus and emphasis should be
placed on their ‘People’ at forthcoming tender stages.

Shafts

1) Following various examples of poor safety performance by Keltbray Structures directly employed
scaffolding resource, there should be greater focus on the supply chain employing competent
labour for works that are considered high-risk. This should be queries at tender stage.

Exclusion Zones

1) Exclusion zones were required for stee/concrete frame, which meant that TC1a was put out-of-
service. This was not considered at tender stage.

18
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

2) The top deck of the composite decking was also a ‘No Person Zone’.

Leading Edges

Gullies
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Uulzcze .

Une GZATING.
ss bsponity CenERTION

To GULL,
weneta S Tee.

WF
DAs
TTHENS
Bsns
a ~ ‘DHUTTER, -
SOSH
sem Lacese

P
ETL Fo, Post Fix GULLY  [bbucen ee]

Lifting

1) Keltbray Structures’ supplier for reinforcement, F Brazil Reinforcement Limited, were not bundling
reinforcement correctly. They were mixing different lengths, configurations, and sizes of
reinforcement bar. These unsafe practices ultimately resulted in the Critical Incident that occurred
in November 2020, whereby...

20
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Temporary Core Stability

1} Fortunately, the behaviour of the core during the construction phase was well understood by the
Project.

Formwork Hoists (Temporary Works)

1} Keltbray Structures’ own formwork hoists were situated within various shafts. There were two hoists
situated within PA & FF and HR of the North Core, and one hoist situated in SL 02 of the South
Core. Once the North Core’s structure had progressed far enough, Keltbray Structures had planned
to re-construct “flying” hoist bases / platforms at intermediate levels of the North Core. This was to
ensure that their operatives could get access to the rig. Note that the Project's Metal Stairs also

provided secondary means of access.

21
2)

3)

6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Keltbray Structures subsequently submitted RAMS to reflect their proposal for the “fying” hoist base
f platform.

The Designer's Risk Assessment stated that other Trade Contractor's Works could not continue
below this platform / base. This also contradicted 3.23 of the Scope of Works which stated that“...
No access to the lift shafts will be permitted after handover’.

In addition, the removal of these formwork hoists from the shafts caused delays to other Trade
Contractor's Works, namely, the Lifts Trade Contractor, who could not commence their Works until
these temporary formwork hoists were removed from the shafts.

When in operation, Keltbray Structures’ formwork hoist had insufficient lighting. Keltbray Structures
claimed that this was a “safety feature”. Lendlease’s framework agreements should be back-to-
back with the supply chain and whatever sub-contractors and/or suppliers, the supply chain propose
for use on any construction site being operated by Lendlease.

Three Lift Shafts were always planned to be used for beneficial builder's use; however, as noted,
Keltbray Structures positioned their ‘formwork’ hoists into two Lift Shafts and TC1a was positioned
in SL 01. This added risk into the Programme, particularly from the perspective of Lift Trade
Contractor, Kone Plc.

Rig Activities

1) The Programme should have separated the normal vertical and horizontal construction of the North

Core and South Core (e.g., Separating Lobby Slabs from North Core) respectively, from the period
required by Keltbray Structures to remove the rig. This activity caused significant disruption to other
Trade Contractor's on the Project due to the exclusion zones required and the fact that Keltbray
Structures required William Hare's craneage allocation between 08:00-18:00.

22
2)

3)

4)

6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Bcd Re ed Occ ed dG Wd 2D ed Ge cd

TF Net Core Consaveton tine Rig Setup § Rdroval |

When the rig was being jumped between cycles, this required exclusion zones to be setup around
the Site. This prevented William Hare from working within specific areas. This also meant William
Hare could not carry out their steel erection within these zones on occasion. William Hare used this
as opportunity to make claims associated with “disruption” to their Works.

Whilst the Trade Contract was clear on the requirement for Trade Contractor's to ensure continuity
of their Works where re-sequencing is required. This prevented William Hare from using TC1a for
1-3h once per week. This “disruption” needs to be considered at tender stage.

In addition, wording should be added to Keltbray Structures’ Scope of Work to the effect...

The Scope of Work should have added an obligation on the Trade Contractor to maintain materials
such as reinforcement and formwork on the rig to ensure continuity Works can continue for period
of 48h in the event of adverse weather preventing the lifting of reinforcement to the rig. However,
the Scope of Work should be clear so as not to contradict Lendlease’s own procedures regarding
Just-In-Time deliveries. In addition, the Trade Contractor must also ensure that they do not overload
the rig beyond the allowances in their temporary works design.

The loading plan for the rig limited the weight of reinforcement (or material, generally) that could be.
loaded — specifically, only 28te could be loaded onto the rig, when some floor levels required c.
5Ote of reinforcement.

Due to changes in geometry of the core walls, adaptions were required at various stages of during
construction of the South Core and from Level 47 upwards of the North Core. These adaptions
meant removing and adapting formwork at height, thus adding additional risk. In addition, the
adaptions add ‘time’ onto the Programme. This needs greater consideration at tender stage, as
neither Keltbray Structures or the Programme.

Reinforcement

23
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

1} Keltbray Structures raised a Technical Submittal prior to commencing on the Site, proposing the
use of Dextra Rolltec couplers in lieu of the lapping of reinforcement. These couplers however only
have technical approval by CARES for static applications in tension only, but no approval for
compression applications. The Technical Submittal was subsequently recommended Status C.

Fortunately, the ‘Concrete Specification’ was clear on requirements for couplers to work in both
tension and compression. It was also clear on the requirement for relevant technical approval by
CARES. For tension-compression applications, the coupler should be CARES approved for both
tension and compression. Additionally, the Concrete Specification also stated that reinforcement
detailing should be carried out to BS EN 1992 (Eurocode EC2) and highlights that this may be
different to previous British Standards.

2) At tender stage,

3) Following a Critical Incident in Novernber 2020,

[Insert File Note on lifting procedures and drawing showing Belgrano]

Lift Shafts

1) The document that outlined the scope associated with the Working Decks and Protection Decks
should have had a caveat relating to building the shaft at the highest level possible, based on the
progress of the structure.

Waterproofing

1} Ground Floor slab should have been designed to be waterproof, with for example water-bars to
create a watertight seal. Alternatively, the Scope of Work should be very clear on the Trade
Contractor's {e.g., Keltbray Structures) responsibility to ensure that basement areas are maintained
as watertight following casting of the Ground Floor slab.

An example addition to the Scope of Work could be, “... The Trade Contractor shall also ensure that
the basement shail remain watertight up to Practical Completion of the Project’.

24
2)

3)

4)

5)

6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

There were numerous issues associated with the temporary waterproofing of the Ground Floor slab.
Although the temporary waterproofing of this area was bought from Keltbray Structures, this was
only bought to the extent that was shown on the Contract Documents, therefore, where additional
builder's work was requested, these were considered variations. As such, rates should be added
to the Schedule of Rates to cater for this.

Where there are temporary openings through concrete slabs and there are subsequent construction
joints, the Scope of Work should be clear on the requirement for the Trade Contractor to waterproof
said construction joints.

The Contract Documents and the design intent within need to be clear on where the waterproofing

membrane (ie., Preprufe was specified on the Project) terminates vertically. This applies
specifically where there are multiple interfacing Trade Contractors.

The Scope of Work should have been clearer regarding who was responsible for the provision of
puddle flanges, or similar, to the secant wall, or other vertical areas of the basement.

The Scope of Work should have been clearer on the party responsible for casting sleeves into the
secant wall for services, along with the requirement for waterproofing for said sleeves.

25
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

6) Kone’s JumpLift required weather protection to protect activities taking place below from water
ingress. Keltbray Structures Limited failed to properly weatherproof the Working / Protection Decks.

In Lift Shafts with the JumpLift, only the Crash / Weather Deck would be required as the JumpLift
system provides the Working Deck.

1. Deflection Deck {provided by Construction Manager via Keltbray Structures). It should be noted
that Kone recommend in their JumpLift ‘instalation instruction’ that the Deflection Deck is
attached to the core form.

2. Waterproof Crash Deck (provided by Construction Manager via Keltbray Structures)
3. Crash Deck (provided by Construction Manager via Keltbray Structures)
4. Installation ‘Time’ Platform (provided by Kone)
&. Cathead Hoisting Beam (provided by Kone)
6. Cathead (provided by Kone)
7. Car {provided by Kone)
fA
2
—3
I 4
a
-
Ha °
_-§|
if 7
L—

26
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Liner Walls

1)

In October 2020, Keltbray Structures poured concrete into the Site's lateral sewer (which exits into
Bishopsgate). This came as consequence of Keltbray Structures engineer failing to check that the
cap was solid enough - Keltbray Structures had used ‘duck’ tape to seal the opening. It should have
been cast iron.

Metal Stairs

2)

3)

The conversation around damage and protection to Metal Stairs was frequently discussed.

There should be greater emphasis, driven by milestones on the Programme and corresponding
wording in the Scope of Work, to ensure that stairs are handed over timely. Where Trade
Contractors are required to carry out repairs to their...

PAD Contracts Limited (sub-contractor for Keltbray Structures) advised post-contract that paying
an additional amount for applying and then maintaining protection to handrails and balustrades
outweighs the cost of retrospectively repairing damage to balustrades. Tenderers should be asked
to price this ‘below-the-line’ at tender stage; under the Trade Contract, this could be added as an
‘Alternate’ in the Trade Contract. The cost associated with maintaining protection can be significant.
This was bought successfully.

13.2 Protection

The Trade Contractor shall protect the Works to prevent damage to them as required by
Appendix 2 and shall maintain such protection until Practical Completion of the Project or
Practical Completion of any Section in which the part of the Works to be so protected is
comprised. The Trade Contractor shall take all reasonable steps to prevent loss or damage
to all work executed aor in the course of execution and any goods and materials on the Site.
The Trade Contractor shall also protect occupiers of adjacent properties and the public from
danger, discomfort, disturbance, trespass cr nusance caused by the Works.

27
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

8. Protection of the Works (Clause 13.2):

The Trade Contractor shail provide protection to the Werks as required prior to practical completion
of the works.

Specific requirements for protechon shai! be as follows:

« = The Trade Contractor shall provide protection as required by the Contract Documents.

« The Trade Contractor shall provide suitable protection of architecturally finished concrete
finishes (Including protection from construction activites and weathering).

« The Trade Contractor shall provide suitable protection to all completed work elements.
including stairs, handrails, gullies and any other architecturally finished concrete surfaces.

* The compatibility of the protection material with any other adjacent material shall be tested
and guaranteed.

« Stairs protected with anti-slip surfacing during construction phase

4)

The Scope of Work should have been clearer regarding the responsibility of who was to provide
fixings for the handrail to the stairs.

During the construction phase, Keltbray Structures argued that the “stem” bracket which
allowed for the external balustrade to be fixed onto, did not form part of their Trade Contract.
The Scope of Work was not entirely clear on this element of scoping.

28
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

3.16 of the Scope of Work stated, *... Steel stairs inside cores shail include the flights, landings,
and internal permanent handrails (factory) finished to base and first coats only. Final finishes
and the associated external permanent handrail will be completed by following trades”.

The Scope of Work’s wording could be amended to, “... Meta/ Stairs on the Project shail include
the flights, landings, half-landings, and internal permanent handrails, and associated fixtures
and fittings. The Metal Stairs should be (factory) finished to base and first coats only. Final
finishes and the associated external permanent handrails fixed to concrete will be completed
by follow-on trades.

Where fixtures and fittings are welded and therefore form part of the structure of the Metal Stair,
these should also be allowed for by the Trade Contractor”.

There were two Wilkinson Eyre documents, namely, 260906-WEA-XX-XX-SP-A-Section L30 -
‘Stairs Specification’ and 260906-WEA-XX-XX-SP-A-Section L32 - ‘Balustrades / Handrails’.

The ‘Stairs Specification’ and specifically L30.1207(c) refers you to L32 of the specification for
‘Balustrades / Handrails’.

c) Integrated balustrades and handrails:
i) Type BAL-114, balustrading to be welded fo stair treads (Refer to Section L32).

il) Balustrading types to give visually seamless continuation/ appearance from top
floor to basement level.

Regarding L32.1215 of ‘Balustrades / Handrails’ states the below.

32.1218 ‘Type BAL.305 Extemat Metal Balustrade

External metal balustrade system, configured as indicated on the Design Drawings,
compnsing:

a) Balusters:

1) Galvanised mild steel Rat rectangular balusters to sizes and profiles configured
as indicated on the Design Drawings.

Fy The balusters shall be welded ta mild stee! hase plates.

b} 40mm diameter stainiess steel handtall bolt fixed to stainless steel circular section
bracket, welded to batuster.

Note that the “stain/ess steel circular section bracket’ (stem) is to be welded to the balustrade,
as per ‘b' above. Therefore, the Project could argue that the intent had always been that this
bracket has formed part of the structure of the balustrade.

29
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

30
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Riser Protection

Riser protection was bought from two Trade Contractors, namely, Keltbray Structures (Substructure,
Cores & Superstructure Concrete and William Hare (Structural Steelwork). Keltbray Structures were
responsible for the supply and fitting of RiserSafe to any opening, greater than 300x300mm, within the
concrete structure, whilst William Hare were responsible for fitting free-issued RiserSafe to any opening
that was supported on at least one side by metal decking.

1) This generally applies to the Project,
Had the
Access platfom in Im01-Im3
Current design
MJL'scontract din't have creanega /
Hare’s and Keltbray weren't using it
46 nights = 10h — 460 hours of lifting - wasn't factored into MJL

1 HOUR EQUATES TO 460 DAYS.

William Hare and Keltbray Structures were allocated 90% of the craneage throughout the duration of
the structure during Normal Working Hours, whilst Keltbray Structures Limited had 90% allocation to
craneage during backshift hours of 18:00-23:00 Monday to Friday. This means Michael J Lonsdale’s
Trade Contract had craneage allowance of 1h per day.

https://youtu.be/H2ELBYrKbUA

31
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Miscellaneous

1)

2)

Wording should be added to the Scope of Work that protects the Project from claims associated
with activities carried out by UK Power Networks (or similar) for example, that would mean the Site
could be potentially closed during Normal Working Hours.

The Trade Contract was not clear on the Construction Manager's entitlement to stop Trade
Contractor's Works on safety grounds and/or safety stand-downs, such as those that following
Critical Incidents. Trade Contractor's should not be able to claim ‘time’ associated with these events.
This is an area that should be checked with Macfarlanes. Below is an example of wording that was
added to the Sub-Contract at Deptford, Plot 4.

32
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

"2.198 For the avoidance of doubt the following do not constitute a Variation or
Relevant Sub-Contract Event and no extension of time or loss and
expense will be given’

+ in respect of weather delays, including winding-off of craneage:

2 im respect of logistical issues, lack of craneage, Site access. Site

terface, design co-ordination and/or design development of

|
Hope 10: 8B692388-52FD-496S-82B1-CBC7BFESCOSE

items to complete the Sub-Contract Works which are the
responsibilty or fault of the Sub-Centractor, or

3 In respect of any delays arising in connection with: (a) site-wide
stand-downs for to health and safety reasons; or (b) ‘topping-out’
ceremonies for the Project (or part of the Project) in respect of
which the Contractor has given the Sub-Contractor reasonable
advance notice, or

4 where the Sub-Contractor has failed to comply with clause 2.34.”

33
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’
4.0 H1500 Tower Cranes

Lendlease European Delivery Requirements / Global Minimum Requirements.

1) Careful consideration must be given when placing an order to the Lendlease’s European Delivery
Requirements, as they are not clear on requirements.

2) Crane Supervisors were not bought as part of the Hire Contract. The European Delivery
Requirements do not clearly stipulate the requirements for this role, as they only say this
requirement is dependent on the degree of risk. These requirements also state that the “Appointed
Person” can act as the “Crane Supervisor’.

An Appointed Person was bought, along with supervision and resource downstream from Trade
Contractors.

Project Lifting Profile :
Requi

Profile 1 - projects with:

1 lower crane and high risk

BET ower crane + 1 or more mobile
cranes nct including compact
cranes’)

1 Muluple tower cranes

= Mote cranes only and high ask
operations

High risk includes:

1 Lifting in close proximity 10 the
public or railways

= Complex iting operations ot
Ming in tose proximity to other
opetatians

Once the craneage scheme had commenced on the Site, with more than one tower crane, the
Project decided that two Crane Supervisors were required, in addition to the Appointed Person and
the resource already bought downstream from Trade Contractors on the Project.

3) JR Crane Services Limited were appointed on the Project to provide independent third-party
attendance to oversee crane activities such as erections, dismantles and climbs. Currently, the
business only has one person that can provide this attendance. This was not bought as part of the
Hire Contract. This requirement is also not clear in Lendlease’s European Delivery Requirements.

Other Lendlease projects within the business had previously set this up as a Simple Purchase

Order. However, this does not provide appropriate insurance coverage, that is back-to-back with
other Trade Contracts and/or Hire Contracts on the Project.

34
1)

2)

6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

Orders Not Placed

Ensure that the requirement and quantity of ‘Independent Category 3 Design Checks’ are firstly
understood and scheduled out at tender stage. These should be either allowed for as an Orders
Not Placed, or bought with one of the other Trade Contractors, e.g., Keltbray Structures. The
allowance of £50,000.00 was not enough for the number of these checks required on the Project.

It should be noted that there are approved sub-consultants that the business considers to be
acceptable. These sub-consultants are vetted by Lendlease’s Temporary Works Department.

Most of these checks for the craneage scheme were bought with Keltbray Structures. It would be
beneficial to add rates to the Trade Contract’s Schedule of Rates...

An Orders Not Placed should be allowed for within Temporary Services for out of hours working
where attendance is required for climbing of craneage. This was not bought, but this was required
every weekend where the crane was climbing.

Communication

Communication between Crane Operators (from Wolffkran) and William Hare’s workforce was the

potential cause of two Critical Incidents on the Project. Crane Operators could not understand William
Hare's operatives’ accents, with many of them coming from Northern areas of the country. There were

workshops held to better the communication between the two parties

Culture??

William Hare became poor in communication with Wolffkran.

Certain crane drivres coulnd’t understand different slingers (because they were Northern).

Communication not clear

There was workshop on communication to better the communication

35
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

We took hare’s sligners up the crane to understand what the crane drivers were ‘seeing’
British standard says that you need to establish common means of communication!!!
Transient workforce!!!

There needs to be groundrules — they also talk to eachother day, but never see eachother.

General Notes

1} Scope of Work covers the time allowed for associated with the submittal of Method Statements,
however, this should also add that “... fhe Construction Manager is allowed to revisit the contents
of the Method Statement as and when required, to reflect the current state of progress on the Site”.

2) The “Facilities” provided by the Construction Manager and specifically stated in Appendix 2 need
to be clearer regarding the power and lighting requirements that are going to be provided to Trade
Contractors. For example,

3) Percentage for overheads and profit should be agreed at tender stage and added to the Schedule
of Rates (where necessary). An appropriate rate of profit is often taken from a Trade Contractor's
audited accounts for the previous three financial years, whilst the percentage for overheads can be
arrived at

36
6-8 Bishopsgate / 150 Leadenhall Street — Structural ‘Lessons Learned’

4) Trade Contractor's should be obligated to provide their yearly audited management accounts to
Lendlease regularly.

37